- [Teacher] Let's look at the other
two flavors of the method that we have.
Schedule With Fixed Delay, and shedule At Fixed Rate.
Let's go back to the IDE and I'm going
to come in this previous scheduled call that we did.
And instead, I'm going to say,
service.scheduleAtFixedRate.
Okay, It is going to demand from you the runnable instance
so, let's say cleaning scheduler, then, an initial delay
that will be five seconds, a long period,
let's say that four seconds and of course,
the time unit is seconds that we want.
Now, please understand that scheduling jobs
generally occur in days, okay, but right now,
for the demonstration purposes,
I'm keeping the time unit as seconds.
Otherwise, I wouldn't be able to show you
how it is scheduled and how the run happens.
Okay.
There's one more thing that I have to do,
since I'm scheduling this job,
I have to run it periodically and I'm going to show you
at least two runs or three runs of this method call.
And in order to do that, I'll have to go back
to the cleaning scheduler and just comment on this call.
Why?
Because when I run the first cleaning scheduler task
when it gets scheduled, it's definitely going
to delete those files and then,
when the next cleaning schedule comes in,
it'll have nothing to delete, basically.
Right?
So I'm just going to comment on that line will not delete,
but we'll just make sure that this job is running for us.
Okay, so let's save this.
Let's come back to test schedulers
and let's understand what this method is going to do.
When you say schedule At Fixed Rate, it means
that the first cleaning scheduler is going to get enabled
in the application after an initial delay of five seconds.
There after, every four seconds,
the cleaning scheduler is going to run.
Right, I'm just gonna reiterate that, the first time
it runs will be after an initial delay of five seconds,
and then at a regular interval of four seconds,
a new cleaning scheduler task will be submitted.
Okay, so let's do one thing.
Let's quickly run this.
So one, two, three, four, five initial delay
and you'll get the output.
One, two, three, four, that's the interval.
One, two, three, four, again, the output.
So you see every four seconds later,
that job is going to be submitted again, right.
So that's how this works.
Let's stop the execution.
And now let's look at the other flavor as well.
The other flavor is
service.scheduleWithFixedDelay.
So, this also demands from you the cleaning scheduler task,
that initial delay, let's say that five seconds.
And now this is a long delay, I'll explain to you what it
let's say it's four and then seconds.
Okay, what is this method going to do now?
When you say schedule with fixed delay,
it means that the first cleaning scheduler task is going
to be enabled after an initial delay of five seconds.
And this long delay that you've specified
as a third argument signifies the interval
between the termination of the last task
and the commencement of the next.
Okay, and this is not the same as the earlier API.
That is because it is also going to take into consideration
the time that is required for the scheduler itself
to get executed completely, right.
So the first instance will begin after five seconds,
which is the initial delay of the application.
And let's say the clearing scheduler
takes another two seconds to execute, which means five
plus two, you'll get the output of the seven seconds
for the first cleaning scheduler, then it is going to wait
for another four seconds, and then
the next cleaning scheduler task will get submitted.
So it is definitely taking into account the time that is
required to complete this cleaning scheduler task as well.
Okay, so let's do one thing in order to test this.
Let's go to the cleaning scheduler, and do what we care?
On line number 20, I'm going to insert a line saying
thread.sleep, let's say put it to sleep for two seconds.
Okay, so I'm going to say surround statement we try catch,
and now let's understand what is going to happen.
I'm going to write it down here your for you
so that it's pretty clear with us.
The first task after an initial
delay of five seconds.
Okay, now, once the task spawns, then of course,
it is going to take two more seconds to execute,
right, so two seconds for the task to execute.
Which means when you start the application
after a total of seven seconds,
you're going to get the output of this task.
After that there's a waiting time of four seconds.
And then the next cleaning scheduler will start, right.
So this interval that we're talking about this argument,
the third argument is the time interval
between the completion between the termination
of the last task and the commencement of the next.
So after the waiting time of four seconds,
then the next cleaning schedule is going to start
and that itself will take two seconds to execute, right.
So after six seconds, you will
get the next output of the task.
Okay, so let's run this and observe very, very carefully.
Let me just minimize the view so we have
the parameters right in front of us.
Okay, let's clear this and let's run this.
So one, two, three, four, five,
six and seven, the first output.
One, two, three, four, and then
two seconds Five, six, the next output.
you see, so basically, it is going to take into account
the time taken by the task to get completed
without it, it is never going to make sure
that the next cleaning scheduler task is ever submitted
and the next cleaning scheduler task is always going
to submit it even after this delay not before that.
So the waiting time for the task and then the delay
and then the next task starts.
I hope this is clear, all right.
Let's stop the execution.
One more point that I have to tell you here is
that when we're trying to run the schedule methods,
the output in case it is a callable implementation
can be captured into a scheduled future object.
So far when we saw the demos with the executor service
we kept taking the output in a future object,
but since this is the scheduled executor service,
the output will be available in our scheduled future object.
Right?
So those are the methods of the scheduled executor service.